| Tube     | BamHI–HindIII<br>restriction<br>enzyme mixture | Restriction<br>Buffer–RNase | Suspect 1<br>DNA | Suspect 2<br>DNA | Evidence<br>A or B | H₂O  |
|----------|------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------|------------------|--------------------|------|
| S1       | 3 μL                                           | 3 μL                        | 10 μL            |                  |                    | 2 μL |
| S2       | 3 μL                                           | 3 μL                        |                  | 10 μL            |                    | 2 μL |
| EA or EB | 3 μL                                           | 3 μL                        |                  |                  | 10 μL              | 2 μL |

- 3. Mix reagents by pipetting gently up and down.
- 4. Incubate all of the reaction tubes for 1 hour at 37 oC.

NOTE: Your instructor will freeze your completed restriction digests at -20 oC until the next lab period.

# **III. Electrophorese Digests**

#### Reagents:

- Restriction digests from Part II, on ice
- 10x loading dye, 10 L

### Supplies and Equipment

- Gel electrophoresis chamber with agarose gel in gel tray, power supply
- 1-20 L Micropipette and pipet tips

# **Load the Gel**

- 1. Use a micropipette to add 2 L of 10× loading dye to a reaction tube. Use the pipet tip and gently pipet up and down a couple of times to mix the 10× loading dye with the digested DNA. Use a new pipet tip and repeat for each digest.
- 2. Use a micropipette to load the contents of each reaction tube (20 L total) into a separate well in the gel. Use a fresh pipet tip for each reaction tube and write down the order in which the samples are loaded.

NOTE: Be careful not to punch the tip of the pipet through the bottom or side of the well.

## While loading,

- steady the pipet over the well using two hands. You may wish to place one or both elbows on the lab bench to steady your hands.
- be careful to expel any air in the pipet tip end before loading the gel. If an air bubble forms a cap over the well, the sample will flow into the buffer around the edges of the well.