# **Chapter 4**

# Nonlinear equations

## 4.1 Introduction

The pressure drop in a fluid in motion is examined. For a flow in a pipe with a circular cross section of diameter *D* (meter), the Reynolds number, *Re*, is given by

$$Re = \frac{Dv}{v}$$

in which v (m/s) is the average flow velocity and v ( $m^2/s$ ) is the viscosity of the fluid. The flow is called *laminar* if Re < 2100 (low flow velocity) and *turbulent* if Re > 3000. For  $2100 \le Re \le 3000$ , the flow is neither laminar nor turbulent.

For turbulent flows, the pressure drop between inflow and outflow is given by

$$P_{\rm out} - P_{\rm in} = \frac{\rho w L v^2}{2gD},$$

in which w is a friction coefficient,  $\rho$  ( $kg/m^3$ ) is the fluid density, L (m) is the length and g ( $m/s^2$ ) is the acceleration of gravity. If the fluid contains particles (sand, paper fibers), then the friction coefficient w satisfies the equation

$$\frac{1}{\sqrt{w}} = \frac{\ln(Re\sqrt{w}) + 14 - \frac{5.6}{k}}{k},$$

in which *k* is a parameter known from experiments.

In this chapter, numerical methods will be discussed that can be used to determine *w* if the values of *Re* and *k* are known.

#### 4.2 Definitions

In this chapter, various iterative methods will be considered to solve nonlinear equations of the form f(p) = 0. The point p is called a *zero* of the function f, or a *root* of the equation f(x) = 0. First, some useful definitions and concepts are introduced.

### Convergence

Each numerical method generates a sequence  $\{p_n\} = p_0, p_1, p_2, \ldots$  which should converge to p:  $\lim_{n\to\infty} p_n = p$ . Assume that the sequence indeed converges, with  $p_n \neq p$  for all n. If there exist positive constants  $\lambda$  and  $\alpha$  satisfying

$$\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{|p - p_{n+1}|}{|p - p_n|^{\alpha}} = \lambda,\tag{4.1}$$