Probability, Combinatorics and Control

Figure 7.
Estimated cumulative damage for impeller blades.

Figure 8.
Estimated residual life of impeller blades by the criterion of cracking.

Laboratory, Bench, and Full-Scale Researches of Strength, Reliability, and Safety…

DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5772/intechopen.88306

Figures 7–9 show the comparison of the results of the resource calculation

according to the above procedure for the elements of hydro turbines of the

Krasnoyarskaya HPP. The calculations were carried out on the basis of the results of

a comprehensive diagnosis of the technical condition, with an assessment of the

characteristics of the stress-strain state, the characteristics of the mechanical prop-

erties, and the defectiveness of the structural elements. The calculations took into

account loading cycles: “start-stop,” mode control, on blade frequencies, and at the

frequencies of the Karman vortices.

As can be seen from the figures, the resource has a wide range of values. This is

due to the different levels of metal damage detected during technical diagnostics

and the initial dimensions of crack-like defects in structural elements.

The calculation results show that the hydraulic units surveyed using modern

means of technical diagnostics and nondestructive testing have a resource reserve

sufficient for planning and carrying out work to replace the impellers with more

modern units.

It can also be assumed that an integrated approach to the problem of ensuring

the reliability and safety of hydraulic units makes it possible to reliably predict the

possibilities, terms, and conditions for their further operation.

6. Conclusion

Analysis of domestic and foreign studies and the practice of operating hydraulic

equipment of large hydroelectric power plants indicate the need for the develop-

ment of more advanced computational methods for estimating the life of hydro

turbines that have completed their standard (design) service lives. When solving

problems of resource assessment, special complex methods of technical diagnostics

and modern computational and experimental technologies should be applied. These

methods should be based on a combination of engineering design models that take

into account the individual characteristics of hydraulic units based on routine mon-

itoring and diagnostics and systems of reasonable safety factors (fatigue, crack

length, stress, etc.) reflecting the uncertainty of the task with the required degree of

accuracy design loads, material properties, and modes of operation.

It should be emphasized that the purpose, role, and place of technical diagnostics

and assessment of the hydraulic equipment resource should be linked to the task of

assessing the protection of hydropower stations from severe accidents and disasters

according to risk criteria. In technical assignments for the design of hydroelectric

power plants, new quantitative safety indicators should be introduced that

implement the design-experimental complex “strength—resource—reliability—

survivability—safety—risk—security”.

Figure 9.
Estimated residual life of impeller blades at the stage of crack development.

48

49

