estuarine influenced areas.   Batangas, Cebu and Iloilo are located very near to protected areas

and tourism areas. Batangas is within the center of the center of global marine biodiversity while

Cebu is in the Mactan key biodiversity area. Manila has the highest number of foreign shipcalls

while Cebu has the highest domestic shipcalls and second to Manila in international shipcalls.

PORT

MANILA
CEBU
BATANGAS
SUBIC
CAGAYAN DE ORO
DAVAO
ILOILO
GENERAL SANTOS
ZAMBOANGA
LUCENA

 SHIPCALLS

Foreign

Domestic

2454
1138
958
313
137
750
212
112
40
74

6,125
79,500
13,196
136
3,159
17,807
24,381
704
41,27
4,428

Table 1. Top 10 ports in the Philippines in shipcalls (2020 data from PPA, CPA and SBMA)

The port of Manila has been documented to have a significant number of possible IAS. The on-

going SAILS-PORTEC research program has detected IAS in Davao, Cebu and Matnog ports. These

ports are adjacent to specific oil tanker pathways/routes. In Luzon where the refineries and oil

storage facilities are located such as Batangas, are at higher risk. These loading ports are at high

risk for IAS/MNIS and these are located near to international ports.

The shipcall statistics in Table 1 represent the year 2020, when the COVID 19 pandemic caused a

global and domestic maritime transport slowdown. The average reduction in shipcalls is around

40%. Nonetheless, Manila and Cebu are likely the main ports that need to be closely monitored

for potential IAS bioinvasion. In 2018, before the COVID-19 pandemic, Manila was experiencing

port congestion with a report that ships may stay at berth for five days (Wallis, 2019). This will

increase the risks for biofouling. Based on the 2021 statistics from the PPA, the average berthing

time has been reduced to 1 day. This is a result of less shipping traffic due to the pandemic.

10

