this  content  “very  often”,  71%  were  from

tremist  groups.  Most  respondents  (77%)

Indonesia and 28.6% were from Thailand.

agreed (combining both “strongly agree”

When asked about how often participants

and “agree”) that they were worried about

had  heard  of  groups  expressing  the

intolerance  in  their  communities,  partic-

importance of men accompanying women

ularly  respondents  from  Indonesia  and

when  travelling  to  conflict  zones,  more

the Philippines. Almost all respondents in

respondents  had  heard  this  message

the  sample  (93%)  agreed  that  they  were

with a higher frequency (“always” or “very

worried  about  violent  extremism  in  their

often”, 37.1%) than those who had rarely or

countries.  This  appeared  to  be  a  general

never heard it (34%). Forty-six per cent of

concern  among  both  men  and  women

respondents  from  Indonesia  heard  this

as 85% of men and 95% of women agreed

message with a higher frequency, followed

that they were concerned.

by  the  Philippines  (38%)  and  Thailand

(15%). When grouping the answer options

of “always”, “very often” and “sometimes”,

66%  of  respondents  said  they  had  heard

groups  stress  the  importance  of  women

being  accompanied  by  men  when

travelling to conflict areas.

Figure 5: Importance of a male

guardian accompanying women when

travelling to conflict zones

Yes

No

Significantly,  89%  of  respondents  agreed

that  religious  extremism  would  impede

women’s  rights.  Half  of  the  participants

in Indonesia agreed they were concerned

that  religious  extremism  would  hamper

women’s rights, 27% in Philippines and 16%

in Thailand. Both men (84.6%) and women

(89.2%)  expressed  their  concerns  on  this

issue.  Furthermore,  91%  of  respondents

agreed that religious extremism prioritizes

men’s  rights  over  women’s  rights  –  93.1%

of  women  strongly  agreed  with  the

statement compared to 6.90% of men.

For  example,  one

interviewee

from

Indonesia  observed  that  the  teachings

of  extremism  have  entered  schools,  such

as  high  schools,  and  have  also  begun  to

penetrate  student  organizations.  She

observed that the teachings “spread from

the  Middle  East,  bringing  misogynistic

teachings towards women as part of their

subjugation strategy”. She acknowledged

that  it  was  part  of  the  organizational

strategy  where  women  appeared  to  look

empowered:

In  the  second  part  of  the  survey,  using

a  five-point  Likert  scale  from  “strong-

ly  agree”  to  “strongly  disagree”,  partic-

“However,

this

is

just

ipants  were  presented  with  a  series  of

manipulation;  behind

it

is  the

statements  regarding  how  worried  they

practice  of  misogyny,  women's

were  about  intolerant  content  being  es-

consciousness,  their  bodies  and

poused in the offline space by violent ex-

minds are controlled, even though

31

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Security in ASEAN34,3%65,7%