3.

RECOLLECTION OF NATIONAL INITIATIVES

Partners were also asked to recollect initiatives from their respective countries that represented
the core values and practices of a Circular Economy or Social Entrepreneurship:

Source
(doc, report,
etc.)

Eco-Ecole
Program
https://www.ec
o-ecole.org/le-
programme/

Horsnormes
https://horsnor
mes.co/

Year

Description of the initiative

Circular Economy
issues addressed

2005  Eco-Ecole  is  the  French  version  of
Eco-Schools,
international
an
program  for  education  in  sustainable
development (ESD), developed by the
Foundation
Environmental
Education.  The  Teragir  association
launched  the  Eco-School  program  in
2005.  The  program  aims  to  help
students  better  understand  the  world
around  them  in  order  to  flourish  and
participate in it.

for

teams

offers
for
to
deploy

Eco-Ecole
instructions
teaching
effectively
sustainable
development
from
kindergarten  to  high
school.

Waste  reduction  of
fruits and vegetables.

2020  Horsnormes

fruits

is  a  website  which
and
provide  baskets  of
vegetables  that  are  directly  collected
from farmers. It helps farmers to gain
money  while  the  consumers  pay  a
faire price in exchange of the product,
which  foster  the  reduction  of  food
waste.

Fondation
Terre Solidaire
(Solidarity
Earth
Foundation)
https://fondatio
n-
terresolidaire.o
rg/quest-ce-
que-

2016  The  Terre  Solidaire  Foundation  was
created
in  2016  by  CCFD-Terre
Solidaire to act, particularly in France,
in the face of the two major challenges
of  our  time:  the  massive  degradation
of
(including
environment
biodiversity  and  climate),  and  the
need  to  building  a  fairer  and  more
ecologically  responsible  society.  The
association  remains  mobilized  on  its

our

Support
and
encourage  initiatives
carried out by citizen
and
mobilizations
actors  of  the  social
solidarity
and
the
in
economy
design,
implementation,
dissemination
and
experimentation  of

This project has been funded with the support of the European Commission. This publication reflects the views only of the author
and the Commission cannot be held responsible for any use which may be made of the information contained therein.
Project No: : 2021-2-FR02-KA220-YOU-000048126

