Thailand,  Philippines  and  Indonesia  in

of the region that most experience violent

particular,  identifying  known  experts  at

extremism  and

terrorism.  However,

the national, subnational and community

through  our  networks,  where  possible,

level.  The  survey  and  interviews  with

we  disseminated  the  survey  throughout

key  informants  asked  key  questions  to

all ASEAN countries.

regional experts on violent extremism to

ascertain if hostile sentiments espoused

are exacerbating insecurities for women.

It  is  important  to  note  the  limitations

of  this  six-month  study.  Although  the

survey  was  disseminated  among  all

The  survey  was  made  available

in

member  states,  the  majority  of  expert

English,  Bahasa,  Thai  and  Tagalog.  We

respondents  came  from  Indonesia,  the

used  the  Qualtrics  platform  to  facilitate

Philippines  and  Thailand.  While  this  can

the  ease  of  dissemination  and  response

be  regarded  as  highly  selective  rather

from  home  computers,  iPads  or  mobile

than  representative,  it  is  important  to

phone  survey  options.  Qualtrics,  one  of

note  that  Indonesia,  the  Philippines  and

the most widely used research platforms,

Thailand  are  the  countries  that  continue

supports  the  implementation  of  both
large-scale  survey  and  experimental

study  designs.  It  is  administered  online

with  responses  gathered  into  a  central

and privacy protected database that only

the approved researchers have access to.

to  face  the  most  pressing  threat  of

ongoing violent extremism and conflict.

This  is  with  the  exception  of  Myanmar.

Given the current political circumstances

and  challenges  posed  by  COVID-19,  on

top of the short project time span, it was

The  platform  allows

for

the  easy

unfeasible to include Myanmar within the

migration  of  data  into  various  statistical

scope  of  this  study.  It  is  also  important

packages,  including  STATA,  the  main

to  note  that  the  data  derived  from  the

statistical  analysis  package  that  we  will

surveys and interviews were based on the

use  to  analyse  the  data.  A  limitation

perceptions of experts and key informants,

of  this  study  is  that  we  were  unable

who  are  involved  in  peacebuilding,  and

to  translate  the  survey  in  all  ASEAN

on  P/CVE  strategies  throughout  the

languages, and there is a selection bias in

region. As a result, it is important to note

that we are focussing the survey in areas

the subjectivity of responses.

Figure 1: Age by gender of respondents

OVER 50

41-50

31-40

25-30

0

5

10

15

20

Male

Female

26

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Security in ASEAN