15

the  way  for  women  to  enter  the  House  of  Representatives.  In  2019,
20 women from party lists have contributed to the increase in female
legislators.  However,  the  Party-List  Law’s  implementation  has  been
controversial owing to the entry of political dynasties and traditional
politicians. The ideal that it serve as the gateway to political power of
disadvantaged  groups  has  been  lost  due  to  vague  provisions  in  the
law  and  subsequent  Supreme  Court  decisions.  The  party  list  system
has  also  been  “co-opted  by  the  traditional  political  system  or  have
become the training ground for future influence-peddling traditional
politicians” (Tigno 2019). In other words, it has deviated from the idea
of proportional representation practiced in other countries. Dynastic
families  took  advantage  of  the  system’s  flaws  and  used  them  to  field
relatives,  including  some  women,  to  expand  their  political  power.
However,  recent  interviews  with  legislators  from  progressive  party
lists demonstrate a better understanding of women’s issues than some
representatives elected from single-member districts (Encinas-Franco
2022, 157).

Table 2. Women-Members of the House of Representatives
per Region, 2007-2019

REGIONS

2007-2010

2010-2013

2016-2019

National Capital
Region

Cordillera
Autonomous
Region

I - Ilocos Region

II - Cagayan Valley

III - Central Luzon

IVA - CALABARZON

IVB - MIMAROPA

V - Bicol Region

VI - Western
Visayas

VII - Central Visayas

VIII - Eastern
Visayas

9

1

1

1

8

4

1

2

2

2

3

8

2

5

3

9

2

1

0

3

2

2

5

1

4

5

11

11

1

4

3

3

3

Overcoming Barriers to Filipino Women’s Political Representation
