tweets,  videos)  inciting  violence  towards

respondents  had  seen  this  content  “very

religious  minorities,  ethnic  minorities,  the

often”  (58%).  Users  of  Facebook,  WhatsApp

LGBTI  community,  and  women  and  girls.

and Instagram acknowledged that they had

Forty-four  per  cent  of  respondents  had

seen this content “very often” (26%, 31% and

“sometimes”  seen  extremist  social  media

35% respectively).

content  inciting  violence  towards  religious

minorities,  with  31%  seeing  this  content

“very often”.

Thirty-nine  per  cent  of

respondents

acknowledged  that  they  had  “sometimes”’

seen  social media  content  inciting  violence

Both  men  and  women  acknowledged  that

towards the LGBTI community. Women saw

they had “sometimes” seen this content on

this  type  of  content  more  frequently  than

social  media  (62%  and  41%,  respectively).

men  (84%),  and  Indonesia  was  the  country

Indonesia was the country from which most

from  which  more  respondents  saw  this

respondents  had  viewed  this  content  “very

content  with  a  higher  frequency  (53%  saw

often”  (50%).  When  collapsing  the  “always”

such  content  “always”  and  “very  often”).

and “very often” categories, 41% of Instagram

Participants in the survey observed intolerant

users  had  often  seen  intolerant  content,
followed  by  36%  of  WhatsApp  users  and

content  directed

towards

the  LGBTI

community.  For  example,  one  participant

34%  of  Facebook  users.  Among  the  Twitter

from

the  Philippines  observed

that,

users in the sample, 48% had seen intolerant

content towards religious minorities.

When  asked  about  how  often  social  media

There were instances when women

content  was

inciting  violence  towards

were humiliated in public and on

ethnic  minorities,  46%  of  respondents  had

“sometimes”  seen  this  type  of  extremist

social  media  content

inciting  violence

towards  ethnic  minorities  whereas  only

27%  have  seen  this  content  rarely  or

never.  Women  have  seen  such  content

more  frequently  than  men  (90%),  and

Indonesia was the country from which most

social media after they were labelled

as part of the LGBTQ+ community. The

comments on posts regarding them

were mostly commending their public

humiliation (cutting their hair) instead

of condemning the act”.

Figure 3: Frequency of viewing extremist social media inciting violence toward women and girls

OFTEN

SOMETIMES

RARELY

NEVER

Male

Female

29

Gender Analysis of Violent Extremism and the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace and Security in ASEAN7,7%35,7%53,9%30,4%30,8%28,6%7,7%5,4%

