16

IX - Zamboanga
Peninsula

X - Northern
Mindanao

XI - Davao Region

XII -
SOCCSKSARGEN

XIII - Caraga

ARMM

Party-List

TOTAL (w/ Party-
List)

TOTAL (w/o Party-
List)

4

2

1

2

1

1

10

55

45

2

2

3

2

3

2

15

66

51

4

2

5

1

3

2

20

88

68

Source: HOR 2022. Computations made by the authors.

Overall,  the  abovementioned  situation  indicates  that  Filipino
women  have  gradually  increased  their  presence  in  formal  politics.
In Asia, the Philippines and Taiwan are the only countries above the
global  average  of  24.5  percent  of  women  in  parliament  (Liu  2021).
However, challenges remain as the increased participation of women
comes  from  dysfunctional  features  of  the  country’s  political  system:
political dynasties and the Party-List law. Nonetheless, not all women
from these groups are necessarily averse to women’s issues.

Barriers to Filipino Women’s Participation

Previous studies have identified political, economic, and cultural
factors that impede women’s participation in politics. However, context
still matters since the perception of women’s role in societies and the
evolution  of  political  systems  differ.  The  following  section  examines
some of these barriers.

The  Philippine  electoral  system’s  “first-past-the-post”  electoral
type, coupled with the lack of well-developed political parties, inhibits
women’s  entry  into  politics.  Encinas-Franco  (2021)  argues  that  “[w]
ithout party discipline and institutionalized rules within parties, one

Encinas Franco and Laguna
