Note that the exact error equals

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

In this example the error estimate is very reliable.

To receive a better approximation the error estimate can be added to the approximation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

In the above example, the value of p was computed using Richardson's extrapolation. However, using Theorem 3.2.1, it is clear that p = 1, and this value could have been used immediately in equation (3.13b) in order to determine cph p . In practice, more complex situations are found, and the following complications may occur:

- -It is not known whether higher-order derivatives exist and/or are bounded.
- -The final result is a combination of various approximation methods. The influence of these approximations on p is not always clear.
- -During implementation of the algorithm in a computer program, errors may be made.

To reveal any of these complications it is good practice to verify whether the calculated p is close to the p that follows from theory.

## 3.7.3 Formulae of higher accuracy from Richardson's extrapolation ∗

In several applications the value of p in (3.10) is known. In that case Richardson's extrapolation can be used to determine formulae of higher accuracy.

This is done by making use of the fact that the error estimates for Q ( h ) and Q ( 2 h ) equal

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Multiplying equation (3.15a) by 2 p and subtracting equation (3.15b) from this yields

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

such that

This means that

The value ( 2 p Q ( h ) -Q ( 2 h )) / ( 2 p -1 ) is a new approximation formula for M with an accuracy that is one order higher than the order of Q ( h ) .

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Example 3.7.2 (Forward difference of higher accuracy)

As an example, the forward-difference method is considered. The error in the forward-difference formula may be written as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

and the difference for 2 h equals