## **Chapter 4**

# **Nonlinear equations**

### **4.1 Introduction**

The pressure drop in a fluid in motion is examined. For a flow in a pipe with a circular cross
section of diameter D (meter), the Reynolds number, Re, is given by


Re = [Dv]

_ν_ [,]


in which v (m/s) is the average flow velocity and _ν_ (m [2] /s) is the viscosity of the fluid. The flow is
called laminar if Re < 2100 (low flow velocity) and turbulent if Re > 3000. For 2100 ≤ Re ≤ 3000,
the flow is neither laminar nor turbulent.


For turbulent flows, the pressure drop between inflow and outflow is given by

Pout − Pin = _[ρ]_ 2 [wLv] gD [2] [,]


in which w is a friction coefficient, _ρ_ (kg/m [3] ) is the fluid density, L (m) is the length and g (m/s [2] )
is the acceleration of gravity. If the fluid contains particles (sand, paper fibers), then the friction
coefficient w satisfies the equation


1 k
√w = [ln][(][Re][√][w][) +] k [ 14][ −] [5.6],


in which k is a parameter known from experiments.


In this chapter, numerical methods will be discussed that can be used to determine w if the values
of Re and k are known.

### **4.2 Definitions**


In this chapter, various iterative methods will be considered to solve nonlinear equations of the
form f (p) = 0. The point p is called a zero of the function f, or a root of the equation f (x) = 0.
First, some useful definitions and concepts are introduced.


**Convergence**
Each numerical method generates a sequence {pn} = p0, p1, p2, . . . which should converge to p:
limn→∞ pn = p. Assume that the sequence indeed converges, with pn ̸= p for all n. If there exist
positive constants _λ_ and _α_ satisfying


|p − pn+1|
lim (4.1)
n→∞ |p − pn| _[α]_ [ =] _[ λ]_ [,]


