Circulating Things, Circulating Stereotypes 83


Figure 4.10 James Gillray, _High Change in Bond Street; ou la politesse du grande monde_ [graphic]. Etching on wove paper,
hand-colored _._

Published by h. humphrey, London, 1796



meant to bewilder the viewer. Satins, silks, ivory,
gigantic eggs, and “artificial” apples describe, in
fact, the things of the trade: expensive and rare
­fabrics, on the one hand, strange collectibles and
exotica, on the other. Lavish dresses and embellishments become insignia of wealth, power, and
nonconformity, of a way of life outside the economic constraints of the Western civilization. In
terestingly, such projections were internalized by
eighteenth­-century British subjects in the fashionable “Turquerie” that allowed the wearers to display their wealth by wearing Oriental dress, turbans, ostrich plumes, long capes, veils, and flattering
shalvars (figs. 4.9 and 4.10). Another infusion of Orientalism in the West, the tradition of painting European figures in Middle Eastern dress, becomes a
form of cultural cross-dressing meant to suggest



misuse of power or excessive wealth (fig. 4.11).
Such cultural imports are difficult to be understood, to use Said’s qualification, as expressions of
the Occident’s cultural “antipathy”84 toward the
Orient; rather, they reflect the West’s attraction to a
space that connotes difference understood as extraordinariness rather than inferiority.

Besides their connotations of magic, exoticism,
and wealth, the things in the _Arabian Nights_ are also
rich bearers of cultural information: as Marina War
ner correctly pointed out, “stories are lodged in
goods”85 and as such, they expand the reader’s


84 Said, _Orientalism_, 260.

85 Marina Warner, introduction to _Stranger Magic:_
_Charmed States and the_ Arabian Nights (London: Chatto & Windus, 2011), 8.


