**1.** **Shipping as a vector for marine IAS**


_**List of Philippine Ports is in Appendix 3**_


Shipping remains as the only scientifically


documented pathway for marine


biological invasion in the Philippines with


the introduction and invasion of the


South American mussel _Mytella strigata_


(Vallejo et al. 2017). This invasive was first


recorded from the South Harbor of


Manila in 2014 and has been known to


have spread throughout Manila Bay, to


Lingayen Gulf, Aparri, Cagayan and


Batangas Port in the Philippines. It has


since then reported in Singapore, Taiwan,



Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, the Gulf of


Thailand, and Sri Lanka.



**Figure 2** _. Foulers from the South Harbor of Manila Bay._
_Photo by SAILS-PORTEC Manila Bay_



_Mytella_ was likely spread through hull fouling and ballast water release. In the Philippines its


spread to other ports was likely through small vessel hull fouling as the first adult samples were


recorded from the fishing boat FV Ocean in 2015 which was docked in Manila Bay. An intensive


monitoring of the South Harbor area in 2014 resulted in the detection of the first cohort of


recruits in Manila Bay. The likely first introduction by ballast water release or by biofouling was


in December 2013 and the first cohort of recruits was detected in July 2014.


There are at least 15 marine non-indigenous species ship hull fouling recorded from Manila Bay’s


South Harbor (Vallejo et al. 2019; Trinidad et al 2017.) Only _Mytella_ is considered invasive enough


to have wide scale ecological and economic impacts. The most numerous species is the well

studied _Hydroides elegans_, which is a known ship fouler with a present pantropical distribution.


6


