74 Baird


Figure 4.3

_The Honey-Moon_ [graphic]. Mezzotint,
hand-colored.

Printed for carington bowles,

London, June 1777



this list, Richard Walker, apothecary to the Prince
of Wales, adds Arabic henna, manna, and rhu
barb.34 The influence of the Arabian medicine first

on the Greek, then on the French and English physicians, although often decried, brought an influx
of medicinal plants from or through the Arabian


_Book. Interspersed with Some Occasional Observations_
_on Some of the Most Celebrated Modern Dispensatories,_
_and the Present State of Pharmacy_ (London: Printed
and Sold by R. Willock, 1744). This volume contains a
wealth of detailed recipes for various afflictions, albeit
providing few specifics as to what was treated by using

them.

34 Richard Walker, _Memoirs of Medicine; Including a_
_Sketch of Medical History from the Earliest Accounts to_
_the Eighteenth Century_ (London: Printed for J. Johnson,
1799).



Peninsula to Europe, where they were customarily
used in tinctures, purges, and other more or less
effective elixirs.35 Alternately, incense was used for
its love-inducing and rejuvenating properties, as
seen in an 1787 etching by James Gillray representing a group of five elderly women of fashion attending an altar of Love (fig. 4.5).36


35 For the influence of the Arabian medicine on Western

Europe, see volume 3 of John Astruc’s _Treatise on the_
_Diseases of Women, in Which Is Attempted to Join a Just_
_Theory to the Most Safe and Approved Practice…_ (London: Printed for J. Nourse, 1767). For detailed recipes of
medicines containing ingredients of Arabic origin, see
_Pharmacopoia Reformata_ cited above.
36 Arabian incense is made by using frankincense or gum
Arabic resin mixed with sweet-smelling essential oils,
such as myrrh and oud.


