150 Al-Ogayyel and Oskay


Figure 8.8 Symbol of stars in contemporary _al-Sadu_

weaving by Leila Yaser.


­objects—such as _kilims_, clothes, bags, blankets,
and tablecloths—were in other parts of the
world. Therefore, although the weaving practice
and the symbols used may have changed, they
did not change as much as in other textiles, so
examining the symbols embedded in these weavings may yield a wealth of information about the
life of local populations. In the absence of written records, _al-Sadu_ weavings become, thus, records of memories embodied in a thing.



Figure 8.7a–c A gazelle horn used in _al-Sadu_ weaving.


**4** _**Al-Sadu**_ **Symbols and Social Significance**


Perhaps the main reason for the uniqueness of
_al-Sadu_ weaving is that it was never mass-produced for export in the same way other carpets
were. Although it was traded among tribes, due
to the length of time it takes to produce a tent,
and due to its particular function in the harsh
climate of the desert, it was not replicable in
other geographies. _Al-Sadu_ weaving could not
be commercialized in the same way that other



The natural environment of the nomadic tribe

can be seen in _al-Sadu_ designs, which contain
symbols that reflect astronomical elements and
the desert environment.24 Quite frequently, _al-­_
_Sadu_ symbols indicate constellations and stars
(fig. 8.8).25 In the vast sky of the pre-electric desert,
the stars, the moon, and the sun had a great significance, being the main sources of orientation. It is
important to note that, currently, the weavers in
Kuwait explain these symbols simply as “stars,”


24 For more details on the symbols that appear in _al-Sadu_
weavings, see also Altaf Salem Al-Ali Al-Sabah, _Ibjad:_
_Ornate Tent Dividers and Weavings of the Kuwait Desert_
(Kuwait: Al Sadu Society, 2006); Khawla Mohamed Abdel and Aziez Al Manai, _Al Sadu_ (Doha: National Museum of Qatar, 2013); and Ali S. Alnajadah, “The Pictographic Codes in Al-Sadu Weavings of Kuwait,”
_International Design Journal_ 8, no. 3 (2018): 63–74. In
this latter study, Alnajadah tracks changes in the meanings of some _al-Sadu_ symbols.
25 Khawlah M. Manna, _Al-Sadu in Qatar: Traditional Tech-_

_nical Values and Techniques_ (Doha: Qatar Museums
Authority, Qatar National Museum, 2013), 99–100.


