84 Baird


­defetishize them and expose the power structures
in which they are involved.



Figure 4.11 A. Birrell, _Sir Robert Shirley_ [graphic]. Engraving


on wove paper.

Published by edward harding, London, 1799


knowledge about remote civilizations. There is an
obvious cultural coincidence, for instance, between
carpet-making and storytelling among nomadic
peoples, which these stories convey through their
intricate plot development. They also tell fascinating stories about the the traffic in diamonds, gold,
and spices between the Indies, China, Arabia, and
Western Europe that still wait to be unveiled. Rather
than looking at the things of the _Nights_ as colorful
details in Sheherazade’s tales or protagonists in the
fantastic stories they make for themselves, we could
explore, instead, their role as as bearers of cultural
knowledge _unintentionally_ embedded in the fabric
of the text. In such a reading, “historically and theoretically overdetermined material charactersitics
of objects are sought out beyond the immediate
context in which they appear”86 in order to


86 Elaine Freedgood, “Introduction: Reading Things,” in
_The Idea in Things: Fugitive Meaning in the Victorian_
_Novel_ (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2006),

5–6.



Thus, as Makdisi and Nussbaum sum up in their
introduction to The Arabian Nights _in Historical_
_Context: Between East and West_, “the _Nights_ offered
a particularly powerful vision of an Asiatic culture
seemingly saturated with references to sensuality,
extravagance, indulgence, violence, supernaturalism, and eroticism … [and] added a supernatural
dimension to the Enlightenment; the tales offered
an avenue into modernity through its magical opposite, an alternative to European identity, and an
antidote to neoclassicism.”87 However, reading
such imports as an expression of European powers’ disavowal of the East in order to “justify their
conquest and rule over other peoples, particularly
in Asia,”88 is an oversimplification of a rather complicated process of cultural exchange. None of
these descriptions of Arabia were caused by colonial “distortions,” as Said feared, but by false attributions: “Arabian” was a misnomer that rarely described Arabia itself. While fictional narratives like

_Arabian Nights’ Entertainments_ represented Arabia as a land of magic and exorbitant riches, they
were too far-fetched to be part of a Westerner’s
belief system during the Age of Reason; rather,
they were popularized because their wild fictionality turned them into bestsellers at the time. Such
stories competed with descriptions of the Arabian Peninsula by travelers and traders who had visited the area and had unmediated contact with the

local culture. However, while the Orientalist literature described Arabia in terms that emphasized
its exoticism, magic, superstitions, extravagance,
wealth, eroticism, excess, and myriads of other peculiarities that contrasted it with the European
normativity, travel narratives created an “Arabian”
identity that was generally congruent with the
­reality of the place.


87 Makdisi and Nussbaum, introduction to The Arabian

Nights _in Historical Context_, 5.

88 Ibid.


