For use with CarolinaBLUT" stain:   

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Tube</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>BamHI-Hindlllrestriction enzyme mixture</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>RestrictionBuffer-RNase</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Suspect 1DNA</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Suspect 2DNA</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>EvidenceAorB</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>H0</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>S1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>10 μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2uL</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>s2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>10 μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2 μL</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>EAor EB</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3μL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>10uL</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2uL</td></tr></table>

3. Mix reagents by pipetting gently up and down.

4. Incubate all of the reaction tubes for 1 hour at $3 7 ~ ^ { \mathrm { { o C } } }$ .

NOTE: Your instructor will freeze your completed restriction digests at ${ \bf - } 2 0 ~ ^ { \mathrm { o C } }$ until the next lab period.

# III. Electrophorese Digests

Reagents:

• Restriction digests from Part II, on ice • $1 0 \mathrm { x }$ loading dye, $1 0 \mu \mathrm { L }$

Supplies and Equipment

• Gel electrophoresis chamber with agarose gel in gel tray, power supply • $1 { \cdot } 2 0 \mu \mathrm { L }$ Micropipette and pipet tips

# Load the Gel

1. Use a micropipette to add $2 \mu \mathrm { L }$ of $1 0 \times$ loading dye to a reaction tube. Use the pipet tip and gently pipet up and down a couple of times to mix the $1 0 \times$ loading dye with the digested DNA. Use a new pipet tip and repeat for each digest.

2. Use a micropipette to load the contents of each reaction tube $2 0 \mu \mathrm { L }$ total) into a separate well in the gel.   
Use a fresh pipet tip for each reaction tube and write down the order in which the samples are loaded.

NOTE: Be careful not to punch the tip of the pipet through the bottom or side of the well.

While loading,

steady the pipet over the well using two hands. You may wish to place one or both elbows on the lab bench to steady your hands. • be careful to expel any air in the pipet tip end before loading the gel. If an air bubble forms a cap over the well, the sample will flow into the buffer around the edges of the well.