Sickle cell hemoglobin and normal hemoglobin differ in only a single amino acid out of more than 100 amino acids in the complete hemoglobin protein. This difference in a single amino acid results in the different properties of sickle cell hemoglobin compared to normal hemoglobin.

Hemoglobin is carried inside red blood cells. Normal hemoglobin dissolves in the watery cytosol of red blood cells. Sickle cell hemoglobin is less soluble in the cytosol because:

• Valine (Val) is much less water-soluble than glutamic acid (Glu). • Amino acid 6 is in a crucial location on the outer surface of the hemoglobin protein. The chart on the next page shows how the lower solubility of sickle cell hemoglobin results in the symptoms of sickle cell anemia.

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Genes in DNA</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>→</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Protein</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>→</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Characteristics</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2 copies of the allelethat codes fornormal hemoglobin(ss)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>→</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Normal hemoglobin dissolves inthe cytosol of red blood cells.福福福 福 中福 中</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>→</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Disk-shaped red blood cells cansqueeze through the smallestblood vessels -→ normal health0</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2 copies of the allelethat codes forsickle cell hemoglobin (ss)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>→</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>If sickle cell hemoglobin clumps in long rodsSickle cell hemoglobin→ sickle-shaped red blood cellscan clump in long rods→clogged small blood vesselsin red blood cells.+ fragile red blood cells→→ pain, damage to body organs+ anemia = sickle cell anemiaG</td></tr></table>

29a. Circle the arrows in the chart that represent transcription $^ +$ translation.