# Promotional Materials

A good promotional strategy should include multiple facets, from physical materials to digital communications. Below, we’ve compiled a table of promotional materials you might use on campus, and examples of each type.

Table 7.1. Types of promotional materials   

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>CommunicationChannel</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1> Medium</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1> Examples</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Directcommunications</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Physical ordigital</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>meetings, consultations,listening sessions,email lists</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Indirectcommunications</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Primarily digital</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>websites, videos, news articles, newsletters,social mediaposts,</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Messaging</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Physical ordigital</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>brochures,posters,signs,booklets</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Events</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Physical ordigital</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>presentations,webinars,seminars, panels,training sessions</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Interactive</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Physical ordigital</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>OER “petting zoos,&quot; games,exhibits,surveys</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Goodies</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Primarilyphysical</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>pens, notepads,bookmarks,stickers,buttons, etc</td></tr></table>

Get in contact with partners at your institution to learn more about the processes and options available to you and how you can best leverage the support at your disposal. If you have a marketing team available to you that orders pens and other materials for campus events, get in contact with them about their vendors and how you can leverage their existing workflows for ordering materials to support your OER Program. This might be as simple as ordering buttons and posters through your University Printing Office, or it may require you to browse a third party’s marketing catalog or to create materials yourself, if you lack funding for your work.

# Annual Events

Creating promotional materials and graphics can make your OER program recognizable on your college’s campus, but just because you’ve created materials doesn’t mean that people will find or learn from them. As a program manager, you will need to find ways to implement your messaging and events on campus. Leveraging annual events like Open Education Week in March and International Open Access Week in October can ground your work in a given time of year and focus your programming around a topic or theme (Open Education Global, n.d.; SPARC, n.d.). The Open Education Week website lists past events and provides downloadable promotional materials to help you kickstart your event planning and coordination. If these weeks regularly conflict with other events at your institution, that’s okay. You can celebrate Open Education Week the week before or after it falls. So long as you are consistent in the general time you hold these events, they will still gain recognition at your institution and faculty will come to expect them.