Note that the exact error equals

$$
M - Q ( h ) = e - 2 . 7 5 2 5 \ldots = - 0 . 0 3 4 2 \ldots . . .
$$

In this example the error estimate is very reliable.

To receive a better approximation the error estimate can be added to the approximation:

$$
Q ( h ) + c _ { p } h ^ { p } = 2 . 7 5 2 5 \ldots - 0 . 0 3 4 8 \ldots = 2 . 7 1 7 7 \ldots . . .
$$

In the above example, the value of $p$ was computed using Richardson’s extrapolation. However, using Theorem 3.2.1, it is clear that $p = 1 ,$ , and this value could have been used immediately in equation (3.13b) in order to determine $c _ { p } h ^ { p }$ . In practice, more complex situations are found, and the following complications may occur:

- It is not known whether higher-order derivatives exist and/or are bounded. - The final result is a combination of various approximation methods. The influence of these approximations on $p$ is not always clear. - During implementation of the algorithm in a computer program, errors may be made.

To reveal any of these complications it is good practice to verify whether the calculated $p$ is close to the $p$ that follows from theory.

# 3.7.3 Formulae of higher accuracy from Richardson’s extrapolation

In several applications the value of $p$ in (3.10) is known. In that case Richardson’s extrapolation can be used to determine formulae of higher accuracy.

This is done by making use of the fact that the error estimates for $Q ( h )$ and $Q ( 2 h )$ equal

$$
\begin{array} { l } { { M - Q ( h ) } } \\ { { { \cal M } - Q ( 2 h ) = c _ { p } h ^ { p } + { \mathcal O } ( h ^ { p + 1 } ) , } } \\ { { { \cal M } - Q ( 2 h ) = c _ { p } ( 2 h ) ^ { p } + { \mathcal O } ( h ^ { p + 1 } ) . } } \end{array}
$$

Multiplying equation (3.15a) by $2 ^ { p }$ and subtracting equation (3.15b) from this yields

$$
2 ^ { p } ( M - Q ( h ) ) - \left( M - Q ( 2 h ) \right) = 2 ^ { p } ( c _ { p } h ^ { p } ) - c _ { p } ( 2 h ) ^ { p } + { \cal O } ( h ^ { p + 1 } ) ,
$$

such that

$$
( 2 ^ { p } - 1 ) M - 2 ^ { p } Q ( h ) + Q ( 2 h ) = \mathcal { O } ( h ^ { p + 1 } ) .
$$

This means that

$$
M = \frac { 2 ^ { p } Q ( h ) - Q ( 2 h ) } { 2 ^ { p } - 1 } + \mathcal { O } ( h ^ { p + 1 } ) .
$$

The value $( 2 ^ { p } Q ( h ) - Q ( 2 h ) ) / ( 2 ^ { p } - 1 )$ is a new approximation formula for $M$ with an accuracy that is one order higher than the order of $Q ( h )$ .

# Example 3.7.2 (Forward difference of higher accuracy)

As an example, the forward-difference method is considered. The error in the forward-difference formula may be written as

$$
f ^ { \prime } ( x ) - Q _ { f } ( h ) = c _ { 1 } h + \mathcal { O } ( h ^ { 2 } ) ,
$$

and the difference for $2 h$ equals

$$
f ^ { \prime } ( x ) - Q _ { f } ( 2 h ) = c _ { 1 } 2 h + \mathcal { O } ( h ^ { 2 } ) .
$$