This book’s approach is premised on a simple assumption: because behavioral economics is foremost a “test-and-learn” field of scientific inquiry that evolves according to experimental outcomes and practical, policy-orientated applications of the knowledge garnered from these outcomes, so too should students test-and-learn. Studying and practicing behavioral economics should occur simultaneously, which, in turn, suggests a course taught more according to a practicum approach than in a traditionally styled lecture format. As such, the book’s information and lessons are presented in a succinct and precise format.

The goal of this textbook is to help students experience behavioral economics through actual participation in the same experiments and economic games that have served as the foundations for, and shaped the contours of, the field. With the help of this book, students have the opportunity to learn behavioral economics firsthand and, in the process, create their own data and experiences. They will learn about themselves—about how they make private and public choices under experimental conditions—at the same time as they learn about the field of behavioral economics itself. They will be both the subjects and students of behavioral economics. What better way to learn?

# HOMO ECONOMICUS VS. HOMO SAPIENS

For ease of reference and exposition, we henceforth refer to the type of individual construed by the traditional rational-choice model as Homo economicus, a peculiar subspecies of human beings that is unfailingly omniscient, dispassionate, and self-interested when it comes to making choices. Homo sapiens, on the other hand, represents the rest of us—the often-flawed reasoners and sometimesaltruistic competitors who are prone to making decisions based primarily on emotion and heuristics.1,2

# THE TEXTBOOK’S DIFFERENT SECTIONS

The textbook consists of four sections that, taken together, portray in full the eclectic methodologies comprising the field of behavioral economics. Sections 1 and 2 present the thought and actual