# 4 Basis Fields

A vector field may be written as a linear combination of basis vector fields. If $n$ is the dimension, then any set of $n$ linearly independent vector fields may be used as a basis. The coordinate basis $\mathsf X$ is an example of a basis.1 We will see later that not every basis is a coordinate basis: in order to be a coordinate basis, there must be a coordinate system such that each basis element is the directional derivative operator in a corresponding coordinate direction.

Let $\textsf { e }$ be a tuple of basis vector fields, such as the coordinate basis $\mathsf { X }$ . The general vector field $\mathsf { v }$ applied to an arbitrary manifold function $\mathsf { f }$ can be expressed as a linear combination

$$
{ \mathsf { v } } ( { \mathsf { f } } ) ( { \mathsf { m } } ) = { \mathsf { e } } ( { \mathsf { f } } ) ( { \mathsf { m } } ) { \mathsf { b } } ( { \mathsf { m } } ) = \sum _ { i } { \mathsf { e } } _ { i } ( { \mathsf { f } } ) ( { \mathsf { m } } ) { \mathsf { b } } ^ { i } ( { \mathsf { m } } ) ,
$$

where $\flat$ is a tuple-valued coefficient function on the manifold. When expressed in a coordinate basis, the coefficients that specify the direction of the vector are naturally expressed as functions $b ^ { i }$ of the coordinates of the manifold point. Here, the coefficient function $\flat$ is more naturally expressed as a tuple-valued function on the manifold. If $b$ is the coefficient function expressed as a function of coordinates, then $\flat = b \circ \chi$ is the coefficient function as a function on the manifold.

The coordinate-basis forms have a simple definition in terms of the coordinate-basis vectors and the coordinates (equation 3.40). With this choice, the dual property, equation (3.41), holds without further fuss. More generally, we can define a basis of one-forms $\widetilde { \mathsf { e } }$ that is dual to e in that the property

$$
\tilde { \mathsf { e } } ^ { i } ( \mathsf { e } _ { j } ) ( \mathsf { m } ) = \delta _ { j } ^ { i }
$$

is satisfied, analogous to property (3.41). Figure 4.1 illustrates the duality of basis fields.