# 10 THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT

COPYRIGHT O d 日□ 日日   
COPYRIGHT PROTECTS CREATIVE WORK BUT COPYRIGHT DOESN'T YOURS, MINE, EVERYONE'S! COVER EVERYTHING n n n U U We're all both consumers and creators of creative 6 Copyright gives a lot of protection, but it also has Work. As consumers, we watch movies,listen to limitations. Not everything gets copyright protection. music, read books, and more! As creators, we Facts and ideas are not protected by copyright, neither take photos, write songs, make videos, etc. are US Government documents, like NASA photos and reports by federal agencies. 0 U ways that are still fair to the creator. 0 0 0 0 U U U Copyright comes from the Constitution.Its purpose is 8 When you re-use portions of someone else's work to promote more creativity. The idea is that letting for a school project-like using images or songs for each of us decide what happens to our own creations a presentation in class-that's a fair use situation. will encourage us to keep creating. You don't need the author's permission. U   
4 9 All creative work is protected by copyright as soon as Copyright protection doesn't last forever. it's written down or recorded or saved一and not just Eventually it expires, and the creative work falls work by professional artists or big studios. Copyright into the “public domain." Works in the public protects all of us-our photos on Instagram and domain are free to re-use and share however everything we write or create. you want. 0 0 U   
5 If you copy or share other people's creative 10 works without permission,that'scalled copyright infringement. Examples: Some creators are happy to share their CC ebooks, or games for your friends to copy. Copyright infringement is illegal and carries serious penalties.